Tutorials (#221)
applied-material-modeling/neml2: doc/tutorials/models/model_composition/main.md

@insert-title:tutorials-models-model-composition

[TOC]

## Problem description

> We have been working with the linear, isotropic elasticity model in the previosu tutorials. We started with that example because it is arguably the simplest possible material model in the context of solid mechanics. It is simple not just because of the simplicity in the description of the material behavior, but also due to the fact that its mathematical formulation only involves one equation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have been working with the linear, isotropic elasticity model in the previous tutorials. We started with that example because it is arguably the simplest possible material model in the context of solid mechanics. It is simple not just because of the simplicity in the description of the material behavior, but also due to the fact that its mathematical formulation only involves one linear equation.
```

> 

Reviewer: You need some transition sentence here.  Something like 

> NEML2 can run and optimize much more complicated, nonlinear models.

    // Evaluate the third model to get b_rate
    eq3.set_parameter("c_0", b_bar);
    eq3.set_parameter("c_1", a_bar);
    auto b_rate_name = VariableName("state", "b_rate");
    auto b_rate = eq3.value({{a_name, a}, {b_name, b}})[b_rate_name];

    std::cout << "b_rate: \n" << b_rate << std::endl;
  }
  ```
  @endsource

  Output:
  ```
  @attach-output:src1
  ```
- <b class="tab-title">Python</b>
  @source:src2
  ```python
  import neml2
  from neml2.tensors import SR2

  neml2.load_input("input.i")
  eq1 = neml2.get_model("eq1")
  eq2 = neml2.get_model("eq2")
  eq3 = neml2.get_model("eq3")

  # Create the input variables
  a = SR2.fill(0.1, 0.05, -0.03, 0.02, 0.06, 0.03)
  b = SR2.fill(100, 20, 10, 5, -30, -20)

  # Evaluate the first model to get a_bar
  a_bar = eq1.value({"forces/a": a})["state/a_bar"]

  # Evaluate the second model to get b_bar
  b_bar = eq2.value({"state/b": b})["state/b_bar"]

  # Evaluate the third model to get b_rate
  eq3.c_0 = b_bar
  eq3.c_1 = a_bar
  b_rate = eq3.value({"forces/a": a, "state/b": b})["state/b_rate"]

  print("b_rate:")
  print(b_rate)
  ```
  @endsource

  Output:
  ```
  @attach-output:src2
  ```

</div>

> 

Reviewer: There is mystery blank space in the html rendering here for some reason.  If you can't figure out why don't worry, I don't care that much about it.

## Running the models: the easy way

We were able to successfully calculate \f$ \dot{\boldsymbol{b}} \f$ by
1. calculating \f$ \bar{a} \f$ by evaluating \f$ \eqref{1} \f$,
2. calculating \f$ \bar{b} \f$ by evaluating \f$ \eqref{2} \f$,
3. setting the two coefficients of  \f$ \eqref{3} \f$ to be \f$ \bar{b} \f$ and \f$ \bar{a} \f$ respectively,
4. calculating \f$ \dot{\boldsymbol{b}} \f$ by evaluating \f$ \eqref{3} \f$.

However, that is not ideal because we had to

> - manually evaluate the equations and figuring out the evaluation order, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Manually evaluate the equations and figure out the evaluation order, and
```

> - manually set the parameters in \f$ \eqref{3} \f$ as outputs from \f$ \eqref{1}\&\eqref{2} \f$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Manually set the parameters in \f$ \eqref{3} \f$ as outputs from \f$ \eqref{1}\&\eqref{2} \f$.
```

> Moreover, such method is not scalable when the number of equations, variables, and parameters increase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This manual method is not scalable when the number of equations, variables, and parameters increase.
```

<div class="tabbed">

- <b class="tab-title">C++</b>
  @source:src3
  ```cpp
  #include "neml2/models/Model.h"

  using namespace neml2;

  int
  main()
  {
    load_input("input_composed.i");
    auto & eq1 = get_model("eq1");
    auto & eq2 = get_model("eq2");
    auto & eq3 = get_model("eq3");
    auto & eq = get_model("eq");

    std::cout << "eq1:\n" << eq1 << std::endl << std::endl;
    std::cout << "eq2:\n" << eq2 << std::endl << std::endl;
    std::cout << "eq3:\n" << eq3 << std::endl << std::endl;
    std::cout << "eq:\n" << eq << std::endl << std::endl;
  }
  ```
  @endsource

  Output:
  ```
  @attach-output:src3
  ```
- <b class="tab-title">Python</b>
  @source:src4
  ```python
  import neml2
  from neml2.tensors import SR2

  neml2.load_input("input_composed.i")
  eq1 = neml2.get_model("eq1")
  eq2 = neml2.get_model("eq2")
  eq3 = neml2.get_model("eq3")
  eq = neml2.get_model("eq")

  print("eq1:")
  print(eq1, "\n")
  print("eq2:")
  print(eq2, "\n")
  print("eq3:")
  print(eq3, "\n")
  print("eq:")
  print(eq, "\n")
  ```
  @endsource

  Output:
  ```
  @attach-output:src4
  ```

</div>

> Note that the composed model "eq" automatically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the composed model "eq" automatically:
```

> - identified the input variables \f$ \boldsymbol{a} \f$ and \f$ \boldsymbol{b} \f$,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Identified the input variables \f$ \boldsymbol{a} \f$ and \f$ \boldsymbol{b} \f$,
```

> - identified the output variable \f$ \dot{\boldsymbol{b}} \f$,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Identified the output variable \f$ \dot{\boldsymbol{b}} \f$,
```

> - registered parameters of \f$ \eqref{3} \f$ as input variables, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Registered the parameters of \f$ \eqref{3} \f$ as input variables, and
```

> - sorted out the evaluation order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Sorted out the evaluation order.
```
